- ...limitations and recommending
tightening up the window that you eat in.
Now that is a real window,
whereas the anabolic
window is not a real thing.
A lot of these people did
P90X, or some other program,
where they believed that
you exercise,
and then if you eat something
right after you exercise,
it becomes muscle.
So, we're going to talk about that today
and I'm going to answer some questions
that are more specific towards this,
and we kind of go outside
of the scope of that
afterward,
but I really want to stay
focused on meal timing
is definitely the theme of what we have
in the X3 programming for nutrition.
Also, keep in mind,
the reason I designed
that program the way I did
was to keep it really user friendly.
Like 90% of the people who look at that,
they go, "Okay, I canprobably
take sugar out of my diet,"
or, "Okay, I can stop drinking Coca-Cola.
"It's not going to kill me
"to not go with Coca-Cola anymore."
So, there's different levels of aggression
when it comes to choosing
your nutrition program.
For example when it comes to meal time,
which is what we're talking about today,
you can have one meal a day
and get all your nutrition
rammed into that one meal.
That's kind of hard,
you're eating a lot in a
very short period of time,
especially if you're
trying to gain muscle.
When you do that sort of thing,
that makes for a rough 24 hour period,
especially if you're not ketogenic,
you're not fat adapted,
that's a miserable day if
you go 24 hours with no food.
Now, if you are fat adapted,
it's a pretty easy day,
but, again, these are
different levels of aggression.
And I will be dealing more in the next,
probably, four to six months on nutrition
because I realized there is so much
crap information out there.
I hesitate to even call
it nutritional advice
because that denotes some
implication of health,
however science can't even really decide
if eating meat will kill you
or if it will make you
like super fantastic
and live for longer,
or if it doesn't matter.
So, there is absolutely
conflicting evidence.
I almost say to somebody when they say,
"Well, let me tell you
"about my health
observations on nurtition,"
I go, "I'm going to stop you right there,"
because health and nutrition,
you can't really give
a health recommendation
based on a lot of the
nutrition information
that's out there,
because there's so much conflicting,
there's so much bias,
and there are companies that make products
that are processed, usually,
simple carbohydrates,
and they're hell bent on proving
that those things are healthy.
That's where most of nutrition
research funding comes from.
So, you got to keep
all that stuff in mind.
Now, back to the main topic,
which is the anabolic window.
You will walk into just about any gym
and, aside from the smell
of sweat and mildew,
you will probably notice,
the second thing you notice,
other than the smell,
is the fact that there's a
lot of guys walking around
looking like they're
holding like a baby bottle
with like a nipple on top of it,
and it's some sort of mixing cup
for some sort of protein drink,
because they got to get their nutrition
right in that anabolic window.
What's so funny about that is since 2013,
a couple chaps I've met
published a literature review.
They looked at 85 different studies:
nutrient timing.
I wrote 85 there to
remind myself to mention
there were 85 different
studies considered in this.
Is there are a post
exercise anabolic window?
And these are two guys, two PhDs,
Alan Aragon and Brad Schofield.
I think I met them at the
American College of Sports
Medicine Annual Congress.
So, they considered all
of these different papers
and they looked at different papers
who looked at having a high
carbohydrate after your workout
versus no meal after your workout,
a high protein meal after your workout,
really refined sports nutrition drinks
right after your workout,
and then comparing that to control groups,
who basically just had
the same kind of nutrition
they've always had, or even fasted,
and then ate at towards
the end of the day.
So, guess what happened?
Nothing.
Everybody pretty much grew
the same amount of muscle
no matter what they did.
Now, what they don't really
have a lot of data on
is muscle gains with multi-day fasting
and I think the reason there's
not enough literature on that
is because people are typically
doing multi-day fasting
are either going after cancer
or they're going after
really, really aggressive body fat loss,
so those are kind of conflicting goals.
It's not like somebody
who's morbidly obese
is like, "Well, I don't want
to lose my pectoral mass."
They need to lose a lot of fat mass
because it's contributing to
their short life, potentially.
So, just not a lot of data on that,
though there are a couple indicators
that show that you can
definitely protect muscle
with the proper engagement,
and, we've talked about,
through stabilization firing
and loading of the body.
So, you can go multi-day
fast without losing any mass,
at all,
but, also doesn't matter
when you have your next
meal after you work out.
If you want to exercise in the morning
and then you're dong the
one meal a day thing,
and then your one meal
is at 8:00 at night,
you're doing most of your growth
when you're sleeping anyway,
so as long as you keep
engaging the muscle,
even just lightly,
your body is really not in the phase
that protein synthesis is going hard,
and for the most part
the protein synthesis
that needs to be going
during the day is happening,
and of course ATP, collagen,
and the creatine phosphate
get replaced on a need basis,
almost no matter what's there.
Even if you have zero calories
available to metabolize,
that's when you immediately
go into a ketogenic state,
and you start using ketones
and gluconeogenesis
to produce the glucoses required,
the glucose and insulin combination,
which then penetrate into the muscle cell
and become those fuels
that need to be replaced.
So, it's going to happen no matter what.
So, that means you're losing
body fat while that's going on
and you're refueling muscle, no problem.
And anything where you say
like, "Oh, I'm hyperglycemic,"
or, "My hands get shaky,"
or, "I don't feel good,"
or skip those meals in which your like,
"Oh I think I need nutrition,"
it's 'cause your insulin
sensitivity is awful
and you're just totally sugar adapted
and that's not going to
help you going long term.
Another thing,
which I know will be one
of the first questions
that we get,
so I'll just head that off right now,
is: am I going to need to be fat adapted?
No, but, if you really want to focus on
rapid fat loss,
that just means you're only option,
if you're not fat adapted,
is caloric restriction,
such as eating smaller meals,
maybe throughout the day.
I think that's a tougher road to go.
It works.
We're starting to simplify things,
like carbohydrates make you fat
instead of calories,
calories don't make you fat,
well that's also too simple,
both are a little bit too simple.
You should be afraid of insulin,
insulin is one of the most
powerful hormones in the body,
however, it's only powerful
when you have a very tiny amount of it.
When you have a lot of it
what was powerful
becomes, basically, toxic.
So, that's just something to keep in mind.
And another thing,
another one of my rants,
which I won't go in now,
is there's no such thing as a bad hormone,
cortisol exists for a reason,
insulin exists for a reason,
and they're powerful if you
trigger them in the proper way.